Category: realworld
Url: everything_i_learned_about_investing
Pubdate: 2018-09-07
Headline: Everything I Learned About Modern Investing
Brief: The barrier to investing is lower than ever before...so don't be a retard.
Takeaway: Investing is viewed as a dark art but it's actually easier than ever before.
Takeaway: Any investment targeting more than 8% in a year should just be considered gambling.
Takeaway: Don't fall for the crypto hype.

##### America sucks at money

I've lost count of how many times I've seen my family and colleagues complain about money. On the whole, this country sucks at it. We fall for the credit card scam and the auto loan scam (and *especially* the student loan scam) and just about everything else designed to take advantage of morons.

The thing is, it doesn't have to be like this. Not only that - it shouldn't be like this. **Investing is not only for everyone, it's a core principle of your personal finances.** And I'm gonna tell you how I got started.

##### A crash course in personal finance

So any article talking about investing needs to start with the basics: *the things you must do before investing*. Far too many people ask me what they could buy with $100, or how to use their credit card to buy Bitcoin, or how quickly they can expect returns so they can finally pay off that $120,000 student loan. Let's talk about why all these things sound ridiculous.

Investing is about increasing your *net worth*. Net worth is a simple formula: Property you own that makes you money (assets) - property you own that is costing you money (liabilities). Debt is the prime example of something that's costing you money.

Your first investment should be **over-paying on your high-interest debt**. By doing this, you get a **100% guaranteed return** for the cash that you throw at your bills. It's very simple: using the formula above, and slapping an extra grand on your student loan one month, your net worth instantly increases by $1,000. As far as a quick and easy way of increasing your net worth...that's as good as it gets, as you'll see in a moment.

So how do we precisely define "high-interest" debt? I use a number pulled out of my ass - 4%. Actually, it's not completely pulled out of my ass: that's roughly half the average annual return of an aggressive, yet sane asset. If you can get 8% on your assets every year, you can also end up losing the same percentage on your liabilities every year through interest, completely pissing away all the trouble and risk you took on to get that gain. Additionally, if you have debts that aren't growing very fast (typically new-car loans, or student loans), you can funnel that money into more assets, pay the minimums on your liabilities, and get more than you would've if you paid down the liabilities. In short - if your debt is higher than 4% interest....use that investment money to get rid of it as soon as you can first. If your debt is less than that...I'd say pay the minimum, and take the rest of the money to purchase an asset.

There is another element that you need to consider: the guarantee of return. The thing is, that 8% figure isn't a guaranteed return; it can be even higher, or much lower. That's the nature of an asset that yields those kinds of returns. There's a scenario here, albeit not-normal, where you purchase an aggressive-yet-reasonable investment and end up lower than if you had paid the debt. Yet, if you pay the debt, it's gone. There's no risk that the debtor will slap more on your balance simply to be an ass. Debt payment is the only investment you can find that can reasonably be described as "guaranteed". So if you like more secure returns - go for **all** your debt. Debt payment is the single investment with the quickest rate of return, the highest amount of return, and the best guarantee.
